Methods Reviewer Request part2 (#81)
greenelab/annorxiver_manuscript: content/03.methods.md

We sought to measure the time required for preprints to be published in the peer-reviewed literature and compared this time measurement across author-selected preprint categories as well as individual preprints.
First, we queried bioRxiv's application programming interface (API) to obtain the date a preprint was posted onto bioRxiv as well as the date a preprint was accepted for publication.
We did not include preprint matches found by our paper matching approach (see 'Discovering Unannotated Preprint-Publication Relationships').
We measured time elapsed as the difference between the date a preprint was first posted on bioRxiv and its publication date.
Along with calculating the time elapsed, we also recorded the number of different preprint versions posted onto bioRxiv.

We used this captured data to apply the Kaplan-Meier estimator [@doi:10.4103/0974-7788.76794] via the KaplanMeierFitter function from the lifelines [@doi:10.5281/zenodo.4136578] (version 0.25.6) python package to calculate the half-life of preprints across all preprint categories within bioRxiv.
We considered survival events as preprints that have yet to be published.

> We encountered 123 cases where authors appeared to post preprints after the publication date, resulting in a negative time difference, as previously reported [@url:https://medium.com/@OmnesRes/the-biorxiv-wall-of-shame-aa3d9cfc4cd7].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We encountered 123 cases where the preprint posting date was subsequent to the publication date, resulting in a negative time difference, as previously reported [@url:https://medium.com/@OmnesRes/the-biorxiv-wall-of-shame-aa3d9cfc4cd7].
```

Therefore, we designed two approaches to account for these characteristics.
Our first approach focuses on articles that account for a journal's variation of publication topics.
This approach allows for topically similar papers to be retrieved independently of their respective journal.
Our second approach is centered on journals to account for varying publication rates.
This approach allows more selective or less popular journals to have equal representation to their high publishing counterparts.

Our article-based approach identifies most similar manuscripts to the preprint query, and we evaluated the journals that published these identified manuscripts.
We embedded each query article into the space defined by the word2vec model (see above section 'Constructing a Document Representation for Life Sciences Text').
Once embedded, we normalized each article into unit vectors and selected articles close to the query via Euclidean distance in the embedding space.
This normalization step allows our classifier to provide the same rankings as the cosine distance metric.
Once identified, we return the journals that published these articles.

> We also return the articles that led to each journal being reported, as this approach allows for journals that frequently publish articles to engulf our results.

Reviewer: I'm confused by what this sentence is trying to say.

We retained articles that were included in the PMCOA corpus and performed a token analysis as described to compare these preprints with their published versions.
As above, we generated document embeddings for every obtained preprint and published article.
We projected these preprint embeddings onto our publication landscape to visually observe the dispersion of this subset.
We performed a time analysis that paralleled our approach for the full set of preprint-publication pairs to examine relationships between linguistic changes and the time to publication.

> The longest publication time within the "Preprints in Motion" subset was 195 days; however, our bioRxiv snapshot contains preprint-published pairs with publication times longer than this timepoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The "Preprints in Motion" subset includes recent papers, and the longest time to publish in that set was 195 days; however, our bioRxiv snapshot contains both older preprint-published pairs and many with publication times longer than this timepoint.
```

> We performed a secondary analysis that accounts for these publication pairs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The optimum comparison for this set would likely be to consider only preprints posted on the same days as "Preprints in Motion" ones, but, based on our results examining publication rate over time, these may not yet have made it fully through the publication processes.
We performed a secondary analysis to control for the time since posting in which we filtered the bioRxiv snapshot to only contain publication pairs with publication time of less than or equal to 195 days.
```

> We filtered our bioRxiv snapshot to only contain publication pairs with publication time of less than or equal to 195 days, then mimicked our previous time analysis that examined relationships between linguistic changes and the time to publication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

As above, we generated document embeddings for every obtained preprint and published article.
We projected these preprint embeddings onto our publication landscape to visually observe the dispersion of this subset.
Finally, we performed a time analysis that paralleled our approach for the full set of preprint-publication pairs to examine relationships between linguistic changes and the time to publication.   

> We also performed a supplemental analysis where we filtered out preprint-publication pairs within our bioRxiv snapshot that had a publication time longer than the slowest publication pair in [@doi:10.1101/2021.02.20.432090].

Reviewer: This is not enough context! What was the concern that you were trying to control for? Help the reader get into a head space where they can figure out what this means 😁 
```suggestion
We also performed a secondary analysis where we filtered out preprint-publication pairs within our bioRxiv snapshot that had a publication time longer than the slowest publication pair in [@doi:10.1101/2021.02.20.432090].
```

As above, we generated document embeddings for every obtained preprint and published article.
We projected these preprint embeddings onto our publication landscape to visually observe the dispersion of this subset.
Finally, we performed a time analysis that paralleled our approach for the full set of preprint-publication pairs to examine relationships between linguistic changes and the time to publication.   

> The only difference is that we filtered out preprint-publication pairs within our bioRxiv snapshot that had a publication time longer than the slowest publication pair in [@doi:10.1101/2021.02.20.432090].

Reviewer: This bit needs to now be updated as a result of our discussion: namely the primary result remains the same but this becomes an additional analysis.
